[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: There
are two ways to declare
a dependency on some aspect of an array.
One is using square brackets and
the other is using this @each notation.
The key difference between the two is
that when you use square brackets,
you're really just observing
the size of the array.
You're watching for
things to be added and removed.
And in the event that that
nature of the array changes,
your computed property
will be invalidated.
And the next time you ask for
it, it will be recalculated.
The second example here
where we're using each.id.
What you're doing there is
you're actually observing the ID
property on every item within this array.
And so if you were for
example building some shopping cart and
you wanted to have this computed
property called grand total.
And you wanted to observe
on all of the items in your
shopping cart you wanna note
the unit price and the quantity.
And if those change, if I increase
quantity on an individual item even though
I didn't add a new thing to my shopping
cart I just bumped up quantity,
I want to recalculate my grand total.
This would be the thing to reach for.
So you're actually observing
the items inside the array
not the length of the array itself.
Very key distinction to make here.
So you would just use these strings here
with the square bracket or the @each.
You would just pass those in
along with firstName, lastName.
You would just use that string as a way of
declaring a dependency on that property.
And you can have as many
as you want in here.
You can even have no dependencies,
which is an interesting case.
That would be a situation where you
would have to explicitly, for example,
when an action is called.
Fire a property change.
Say like,
I declare this to be invalidated.
And that will trigger an update
the next time the property's asked for.
But just be aware you can have as
many dependencies as you want.
And it's everything except the last
argument passed into computed
is taken as a dependency.
>> Speaker 2: There's
a quick question in chat.
>> Mike North: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Is there
a way to do something like,
mylist.each watch all values for change?
>> Mike North: There is
deliberately not a way to do that,
because that would be terribly expensive.
That is observing a whole lot of data,
and it's likely to cause
things to become invalidated
when it's inappropriate.
If you're in that situation where you're
just observing a whole lot it's often
much more efficient to not
declare that dependency.
And to, whenever an action is
fired of some sort, you can just,
call this method notify property
change and pass in the property key.
And that will have the same effect
as a dependency being changed.
It effectively invalidates the cache and
the next time you ask for
that value it will recalculate.
>> Speaker 3: So
you don't consume the computed property.
It will never calculate
the computed property.
>> Mike North: Precisely.
>> Speaker 3: If you don't consume the
computed property but you use the setter
to do something and you set computed
property, does it calculate them?
Even though that computed property
may never be consumed in a get cell?
>> Mike North: So
let's look at our setter here.
You're essentially not gonna
have to really calculate much.
You're providing this computed property
with a value, so it will have that value.
So if I never asked for
fullName but I set fullName here,
the effect that will have is that
fullName will be up to date firstName and
lastName will be updated and
everything will work as you would expect.
>> Speaker 3: So the get is actually
cached without having to call
the get in that scenario?
>> Mike North: So the act of
returning newVal is gonna take care
of everything that needs
to be taken care of.
>> Speaker 3: That'll cause
the cached value to do that for get.
So I don't actually have to call get.
>> Mike North: Correct.
>> Speaker 3: But I ask for the computed.
>> Mike North: And typically you're gonna
have parity between those two things.
In this case,
you're definitely gonna have parity.
There are situations where
it's a little bit different.
For example, if the conversion
from the computed property to what
it's dependent on is lossy, so imagine
we derive from a float and I am int.
And so in that case it can be a little bit
odd because you lose data going on one leg
compared to another.
>> Speaker 3: Punch a developer
that makes a setter that is lossy.
>> Mike North: Sometimes
you can't get away with,
sometimes that's a valid use case.
Like if you're dealing with currencies and
you have thousandths of a dollar, and
you don't want to surface
that to your user.
You-
>> Speaker 3: I would argue
that the setter is the wrong way
to set the value in that case,
cuz there's an implication there.
>> Mike North: It is a far better way
than using something like an observer
which you should, any time you can use a
computed property instead of an observer,
you should absolutely be
using a computed property.
That is a blanket statement.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Mike North: I am
never wrong about that.
>> Speaker 3: So that's not I got another
awesome use case I wanna show you.
>> Mike North: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: Can you give me one more,
just a little bit about the setter return
value and why not doing that is buggy?
Is there something happening behind
the scenes that you don't know?
Or is it an expectation on
the person consuming the object?
>> Mike North: That is going
a little too much on the internal.
>> Speaker 3: But it's magic.
It's not necessarily about
the person consuming it.
It's about how computed properties work.
>> Mike North: All I'd like to leave you
guys with is follow this convention or
else you will feel a little bit of pain.
>> Speaker 3: Or else the contract says.
>> Mike North: All right so
speaking of the internal.
>> Speaker 2: Do you wanna cover one more?
>> Mike North: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: They just came up,
is volatile not recommended for
computed properties?
Is there a case when it is recommended?
>> Mike North: I, so
it exists in its public API.
So there probably are use cases.
I can say I have written a huge
amount of code in Ember and
I don't believe I've ever used volatile.
I've never found a really
great use case for it.
I imagine that they exist but they are so
few And I think that if you structure
code a particular way you can usually
steer clear of the need for it entirely.
Just to clarify volatile
means do not cache anything.
Recalculate each and
every time you're asked for a value.
And what I opt for is explicitly
invalidating the computed property.
Wiping out the cache at the right
moment usually in an action rather than
kind of saying I don't wanna manage
caching properly so don't cache at all.